Dynamic drops are based on ammo in inventory + magazine. 
The threshold is a noninclusive maximum, so 149 machine gun rounds gets you a drop but 150 doesn't.

handgun ammo seems to work differently. In a video, I saw someone get 10 from a box while low on handgun ammo, but in my testing, it's always 4 or 5

gunpowder/scrap seems unaffected by dynamic drops, at least for crates


As for crafting, scrap sells for 100, small sells for 200, large sells for 300
handgun costs 300 to craft and gives 300 worth of ammo
shotgun costs 400 to craft and gives 150 worth of ammo (bad deal)
machgun costs 400 to craft and gives 800 worth of ammo (good deal)
snrifle costs 500 to craft and gives 500 worth of ammo

conclusion: to maximize profits
	Sell all machine gun rounds
	Leave machine gun empty
	Never let machine gun rounds exceed 150
	Only craft machine gun ammo

Maximizing shooting potential is trickier. 
There seems to be enough fixed drops that our main concern is maximizing damage per credit without dipping below the threshold
a shotgun blast seems to stun commons in 1 shot, allowing for melee kills (50 credits per kill)
a handgun bullet seems to stun in 3 (90 credits per kill)
a machine gun bullet seems to kill in 10 (200 credits per kill)
a rifle kills in 1 (100 credits per kill)

Shotgun seems to be the winner here, but remember not to fall below 15, since shotgun ammo is the worst dynamic drop
	This causes tension. Crafting 3 shotgun ammo loses you 400 credits, and getting a shotgun ammo drop costs you 400. We have to switch to a different gun eventually.

handgun is second. 
	It has the benefit of not being too terrible to craft, but it has pretty terrible dynamic drops
	BUT we have to consider opportunity cost. 
		scrap-bound: Crafting handgun ammo cucks us out of 1/2 a machine gun craft, 

Ok, new methodology

costs for drops will be the amount of money you could get if you got smg rounds instead.
	calculated as (smg sell)/(drop amount)
costs for crafts will be the amount of money you could get if you only sold resources/smg rounds. 
	This probably depends on relative scarcity of scrap and small gunpowder.
	We will assume we are small-gunpowder-bound, but extreme use of scrap could shift this estimate.
		That means the value of 1 scrap is 100 credits
		1 gunpowder increases value of 2 scrap from 200 to 800, so it has a value of 600
	If we assume we are scrap-bound
		the value of gunpowder is 200
		2 scrap increases value of 1 gunpowder from 200 to 800, so it has a value of 300

When you have over the threshold, the cost of firing is the sell price
When you have under the threshold, the cost of firing is the craft cost
When you have under the threshold AND not enough resources to craft, the cost of firing is the drop cost

Fire the shotgun till you drop to the threshold, as it has the lowest sell cost
Fire the handgun and rifle till you drop to the threshold, as those two have sell costs lower than any drop cost
Fire the rifle till you drop to the threshold AND use enough scrap that you are scrap-bound, as it has the lowest gunpowder-bound cost
Fire the shotgun till you drop to the threshold AND you're out of resources, as it has the lowest scrap-bound cost
Only then do you fire the shotgun/rifle, as they share the lowest drop cost

Shotgun, handgun, rifle
Craft shotgun
Craft rifle
Drop rifle/shotgun

Problems:
This doesn't account for the possibility of enemies having different dynamic drops (they probably do)
This assumes you can always sell your machine gun rounds (you probably can't)
You would presumably need to balance being gunpowder-bound and scrap-bound better than just "switch over when you switch over"
Shots to kill relies entirely on vibes from my normal mode playthrough.


NEW WRINKLE
you can craft grenades with 1 scrap and 2 large gunpowder. Grenades sell for 1000, which means this craft gives 200 credits.


Further drop testing: 
tentacle things rarely have a dynamic drop, 10 machine gun bullets, unsure of other ammo quantities

umbrella crates have a dynamic drop
30 machine gun
10 handgun
3 shotgun
5 rifle
seemingly can't drop healing items
can't drop resources still

default drop: 3 handgun

dynamic drops don't happen if you don't have the necessary gun
dynamic drops seem to have the same thresholds on all crates
if you're under the threshold for multiple ammos, a random one is chosen


umbrella crate (Grace)
7 handgun
default drop: 3 handgun
Grace seems to have the same 35 threshold


umbrella zombies (leon)
seem to have dynamic
30 machine gun

lickers
20 machine gun