testing done on hard
It's harder to find out the stomp damage since grounded enemies typically have already taken lots of damage. It's between a 1.7379x multiplier and a 1.75817x multiplier. It's probably a 1.75x multiplier.

lying figure
head- 2x (half stun on first; knockdown on second) (sigmaland)
body-1x (half stun on second, fourth; knockdown on fifth) (sigmaland)
leg- 1x (half stun on second, full stun on third; you can mix and match legs) (sigmaland)
knee-1x (guaranteed stun)
backshot stick: 2x (chance to knock over, guaranteed on stealth)
While kneeling, 2 leg shots (or 1 knee shot) will cause a knockdown (sigmaland)
deals:
30 for ranged
25 for melee
20 for grab (if you QTE out of it)

Lying figure (otherworld)
head- 2x (half stun on first; knockdown on second)
body- 1x (half stun on second, third; knockdown+panic on fourth)
leg-  1x (half stun on first shot, full stun on second; you can mix and match legs)
knee- 1x (guaranteed stun)
While full stunned, shooting the leg or knee 3 times will cause it to fall over.
When knocked down, lying figures will "panic" and crawl around for a while before standing back up. Meleeing or shooting the head in this state will cause special half stuns
deals:
35 for low-to-high spit
30 for snipe, suicide
25 for forward spit
15 for melee
5 for residue



mannequin
"arm"- 1x damage (half stun on first, second, third; knockdown on fourth; seperate from body)
body- 1x damage (half stun on first, second, third; knockdown on fourth) (melee hits seem to count towards this, but they reset if you knock down the enemy by shooting in the arms. This is impossible in normal gameplay)
leg- 1x damage (half stun on first, second; full stun on third)
knee- 1x damage (full stun)
shotgun- 1x damage (half stun; knockdown on point blank)
while full stunned, 1 shot to the leg or knee causes a knockdown. shooting the knee that's on the ground does nothing. (inv)


Nurse
head- 2x damage (half stun on second and third, knockdown on fourth)
body- 1x damage (half stun on second and fifth)
arms- 1x damage (half stun on second and fifth; not connected to body stuns)
legs- 1x damage (half stum on second and third, full stun on fourth)
knee- 1x damage (half stun on first, full stun on second)
head (shotgun)- 1.5x damage (half stun; knockdown at point blank)
body (shotgun)- 1x damage (half stun; knockdown at point blank)
arms (shotgun)- 1x damage (half stun; knockdown at point blank)
legs (shotgun)- 1x damage (half stun; knockdown at point blank)
knee (shotgun)- 1x damage (half stun; knockdown at point blank)


Nurse (OW) (all things tested with invincibility)
head- 2x damage (chance to half stun on first and second; half stun with chance to knockdown on third; knockdown on fourth)
body- 1x damage (half stun on second and fifth; knockdown on eighth)
arms- 1x damage (half stun on second and fifth; knockdown on eighth; separate from body shots)
legs- 1x damage (chance to half stun on first 3; full stun on fourth; full stun resets knee counter)
knee -1x damage (half stun on first; full stun on second; doesn't reset leg counter)
head (shotgun)- (half stun; knockdown at point blank)
everywhere else (shotgun)- (half stun)
head (rifle)- 3x damage (knockdown)
body (rifle)- 1x damage (half stun on first, second; knockdown on third)
arms (rifle)- 1x damage (half stun on first, second; knockdown on third)
legs (rifle)- 1x damage (full stun)
knee (rifle)- 1x damage (knockdown)
half stun animation for shotgun seems to only depend on distance. For some reason, it seems to be longer when the player is farther away.
shooting while full stunned will cause a knockdown where it wouldn't usually
	head- 2 shots
	body- 3 shots
	knee- 1 shot
	anywhere (rifle)- 1 shot
	anywhere (shotgun)- 1 shot
@any info here probably applies as well to the regular nurse@

Mandarin (under)
each hand has a health subpool that quickly regenerates. This subpool seems to work different from regular damage. A stomp fills it the same amount as a handgun bullet despite dealing more than 2x as much damage.
While it's hanging by 1 arm, that arm will not regenerate until the other arm is pulled up
hand- 0.1x (stun on third)
hand (stomp)- 0.1x (stun on third)
hand (shotgun)- 0.1x (stun on second)
hand (rifle)- 0.1x (stun on first)
hand (chainsaw)- 0.1x (stun on first)
everywhere else- 0.5x
The hands each have separate counters. 
	Each attack adds to a single counter, so 1 shotgun shell + 2 handgun stuns, as well as 1 hangun + 1 shotgun.
		(this may be how every counter works)
	stunning either hand resets the counter for both hands
	stunning both hands at the same time causes death

spider mannequin
rifle- 1x damage
pistol- 1x damage
shotgun- 1x damage (surprisingly)
body- 1x damage (shortest half stun of all time) (sigmaland)
legs- 1x damage (knockdown on third) (sigmaland)
	impossible in normal gameplay  @THIS CANNOT BE CORRECT. I HAVE GOTTEN STUNS ON 2 SHOTS BEFORE@
knockdown from shotgun and rifle (any range)


Mandarin (stealth)
When they spot you, they will make a sound similar to the one they make before attacking
While chasing, they'll walk at a steady pace, instead of the stilted pace they usually walk at
seems to keep chasing until you leave the area they can move in.
	They will continue to chase for a few seconds after leaving the area, but they won't be able to reach you
	the first two mandarins are actually locked to different halves of the floor
Can detect you even while you are outside of the halls, but will stop chasing if you leave sight for a little bit
If he hears you while crying, he will start chasing


pyramid head
has 1000000 hp
1x damage from every source at every location
first phase ends after 1200 damage
fight ends after 4000ish damage
the damage required to enter phase 2 and the end of the fight decreases over time, 20 per second i think
not affected by 1hp magic
Has no reaction to damage when you meet him in the labrynth. Won't even react to running out of HP.
	stops chasing once you enter the hole in the wall of his sanctum, resumes if you leave
	disappears entirely when you pick up the single-use bolt cutters
	Will not attack you when he appears after using the wire cutters


Flesh Lip phase 1
arm- 1x damage (drops from ceiling)
metal grate- 0.6x damage (you can tell whether you hit the grate or the body by the sound the shot makes)
metal bar- 0.6x damage (this includes metal arms)
back- 0.6x damage
body- 1x damage (that includes the lips)
melee- 2x
backshot melee- 2x, guaranteed heavy attack (effectively 4x)
0.8x multiplier for shotguns, meaning they're less effective
Occasionally, it will teleport while above the ceiling. This seems to happen if it reaches you too quickly after going up. When this happens, you'll hear 2 distant screams. The first tells you it disappeared. The second tells you it appeared again.

Flesh lip phase 2
arm- 1x
body- 0.85x 
back- 0.36x
metal bar- 0.85x
melee- 2x
backshot melee- 2x, guaranteed heavy attack (effectively 4x)
0.8x multiplier for shotguns, meaning they're less effective
starts the phase with a long pause while it tries to get into the ceiling
seems to scream at random. For a regular run, this is good, since you lose 1 hp and he gets stunned for a few seconds, but this is pretty bad for a no damage run

abstract daddy
back- 1x
front-0.5x
legs- 1x (half stun on second)
arms- 0.5x

back (rifle)- 1.2x
belly (rifle)- 0.5x
legs (rifle)- 1.2x (half stun)
arms (rifle)- 0.5x
feet (rifle)- 1x
head is part of the back

back (shotgun)- 0.5x
front(shotgun)- 0.2x
arms (shotgun)- 0.2x
legs (shotgun)- 0.5x
feet (shotgun)- 1x
melee- 1.5x
Phase 1- if he goes under 2000 hp, he will be set to 0 hp
Phase 2 can be skipped if you go through the crevice after breaking the TV
	Starts at 2000; if he goes under 1000, he will be set to 0
	Choosing to fight doesn't affect his other phases
Phase 3 can be skipped if you run back to angela's hiding spot after he appears
	same as last
Phase 4 is the final phase
	Starts at 2000; only dies if you bring him to 0

Eddie phase 1-
anywhere- 1.5x (half stun)
anywhere (shotgun)- 0.7x (half stun)
anywhere (rifle)- 1x (half stun)
melee- 1x (half stun)

Doesn't appear until he finishes his dialogue, unless you've already been to his boss room.
	Appears as far as possible from the player
Can interrupt a half stun with a dodge
Not affected by 1 hp magic
	unless he has recently hit you with a headbutt
only has 3 shots in the revolver
	can instantly reload while running, but takes time while standing still

phase 2-
disappears at the start of the phase until after he finishes his dialgoue and taunts
can run away and disappear and reappear after taunting
orchestral hit means he's going to run in to punch you.
has 6 shots in revolver

phase 3-
same as phase 1 but only melees the player as a reaction to a player's attack
has 6 shots in revolver


Mandarin (over)-
all attacks deal 1x damage everywhere. Nothing "stuns" this thing per se. Attacks to the head can cancel its attack.


pyramid twins-
reacts the same to all damage as the single pyramid head
share a single health bar of 3200 hp. does not drain over time.
The one that starts out to your left has a much shorter wind up time for his stab attack. They both have the same models.


Mary Maria phase 1-
1000 hp
body- 1x (no reaction)
cage- 1x (no reaction)
head- 2x (knockdown on second)
body (rifle)- 1x (no reaction)
head (rifle)- 2x (knockdown)
body (shotgun)- 0.56x (no reaction)
cage (shotgun)- 0.56x (no reaction)
head (shotgun)- 1.05x (knockdown)
melee- 1.5x damage (no reaction)
cannot be stunned during attack animations
will disappear after being stunned
	can be stunned while getting up to disappear, leading to another stun upon reappearing.
is invincible instantly after starting the disappearing animation. Is vulnerable instantly after starting the appearing animation.

phase 1.1-
will only use the bird attack
screams and enters phase 1.2 upon hitting 80% hp or after enough time passes

phase 1.2-
can use the following attacks:
	birds 
	tentacle stab, slash, and grab
	scream

phase 2-
700 hp
body- 1x
head- 1.2x (knockdown)
body (shotgun)- 0.5x
head (shotgun)- 0.84x (knockdown)
body (rifle)- 1x
head (rifle)- 2x (knockdown)
melee- 2x
after being knocked down, disappears
runs across the arena in a straight line towards the player. If the player is still in her path, she will pass by, turn around, and then drop.
After running across, has a chance to play a voice line, cough, and summon birds. This will cause the flashlight to flicker

phase 3-
2000 hp
body- 1x
head- 2x
body (shotgun)- 0.63x
head (shotgun)- 0.7x
body (rifle)- 1x
head (rifle)- 2x
melee- 3x
screams at 75% hp (possible phase change)

Mary birds-
don't have a health bar. Instead, they die upon being stunned.
- (die on third)
(shotgun)- (die on first)
(rifle)- (die on first)
melee- (die on first)



timing doesn't matter for stunning
the three melees in a regular attack deal the same damage
You can, in fact, sneak up on enemies in daylight. Light doesn't make them hear better.


blood on screen starts at 70 and below
red cross appears at 40 and below
heartbeat appears at 10 and below
you can survive a fatal hit if you don't hear a heartbeat
health drink heals 30
syringe heals 100

Stomps deal 3.5x your melee damage, so picking up the metal pipe increases stomp damage to 126, and holding the chainsaw gives you a whopping 1400 damage

shotgun damage is not affected by distance, only by spread. Shotgun stunning is affected by distance.

chainsaw deals 400
shotgun deals 210
rifle deals 150
pistol deals 50
pipe deals 36
stick deals 25


"point blank" for shotguns is even closer than you'd have to be to get the entire head in the shotgun's spread
enemy reactions to the shotgun don't depend on how many pellets connect, but damage does

Any time an enemy revives at random, they revive with a random amount of hp between 50% and 100%
	the two lying figures in blue apartments revive with 50%
	the lying figure that always gets back up in Toluca always has a random amount
	The enemies that revive at the Toluca glory hole all have 1 hp
	The enemies in the red rooms have 100% hp.


hitting an enemy with a chainsaw while the invincibility injection is enabled causes them to stop attacking while still reacting the same to attacks. This will be useful.
Setting hp above max hp causes them to not stun and also prevents headshots, strangely


pistol has a spread of about 1 degree
	Seems to always be 1 degree from the crosshair. As in, it picks a direction and then adds 1 degree in that direction
	Bloom seems to have almost no effect. It just makes the spread a little taller, which could just be a result of the 0 recoil mod not working as intended. Need to test with cheats.
Rifle has 0 spread
	Bloom has a massive effect. At full bloom, spread is about 5 degrees. Need to test at the hotel.
Shotgun has a spread of about 7.5 degrees
	Bloom has no effect